If you have a GPS unit - in your car, in your smartphone, whatever -
It will certainly not work if you go above 60,000 feet or go faster than 1200mph.
And the reason
is this
This is the Rocket Garden at Kennedy Space Center in Florida.
And it is intercontinental ballistic missiles that they have strapped a person to the top
and he has them in space.
And when GPS was developed by the US Department of Defense, the Cold War was still underway.
And - well, but it didn't want Soviet ICBMs to be incredibly targeted.
And so the entire GPS chip that has been used by consumers will have this limitation in them -
that if you say too fast or too high,
"Oh no, I'm a missile!"
And stop working.
And the only time it really touched anyone in the last few years
as a high-altitude unmanned balloon ride pulled out, the kind of stratosphere weather balloons
taking beautiful pictures from the height.
Because when they come down they need to track down, and the GPS unit suddenly thinks
it is in the stratosphere, it must be a missile, and shut it down.
And the solution? Some of these GPS units just shut down if you go too high
AND too fast. Find one of those, you can use it in your balloon.
Otherwise, it's probably best if you stay a little closer to Earth.
And this is something you may not have known.
Translated by Anthony (AP)